In this exercise, we are going to persist
some data with Panache in practice.
We are going to start with lab implement-
persist start script, which
populates our working directory with
some example source code that we are
then going to modify and complete.
The working directory is DO378/
/labs/implement-persist/expense-service/.
Now, you would obviously open
this directory in VSCodium
whereas I have chosen as I
announced, command line approach.
So what I'm going to show you is another
way of adding extensions to project,
simply using mvn quarkus:add-extensions, command or goal.
And then specifying the extensions
property using minus capital D,
simply listing the extensions you want
to add as the value to that property.
Quarkus tries to search
for these extensions
and that means they do not
have to be exact names,
but they have to be specific
enough such that there are
no ambiguities otherwise it will
complain it cannot add extension,
so, that's why I just
simply use their full names.
As you can see here,
it says that both extensions have
been added to pom xml as dependencies.
Now, the first thing we're going to do is
configure Panache in src/main/resources/application.properties.
What we are going to do is add to
the existing swagger-ui.always-
include parameter, selecting that
the db-kind is going to be h2,
which is the driver that
we added, the jdbc.url
for it will be jdbc:h2:mem:default.
The username will be admin,
and the hibernate property for database
generation will be drop-and-create,
to create the tables and then
drop them upon shutdown.
We're going to modify the expense class by
adding a couple of annotations
and changes to it.
So compared to the original,
what we did was skipping
the imports because
obviously VSCodium
will take care of these.
We replace the bear public
class Expense declaration,
making it a PanacheEntity extension.
And we made sure we added
the @Entity annotation.
We added also a parameter less
constructor because that's
what's needed for a JPA entities.
And then we've added an update method
which essentially takes an
Expense as a parameter,
has a look at whether the expense
already exists in the database
and then if it is present in the database,
it updates it by creating the expense,
by populating the expense fields
from the parameter itself.
This is a lambda
expression, as you can see.
So it defines an inferred update field and
then simply copies the final parameters
fields into the inferred
parameters fields.
Finally using the persist method
to persist it into the database.
Otherwise, if an existing
record is not found,
the update shall return an error.
Because we cannot update
something that isn't there,
we need to persist it.
So that was the complete set of
modifications to our entity.
Now, the next thing we are going
to do is we are going to modify
the REST web service
such that we no longer
need the expense service
business logic class, right?
Looking at the ExpenseResource.java file
again, just going through
the modifications,
we will no longer use the ExpenseService.
We will obsolete it completely because
all the persistence related code
is now in our entity class.
So instead of, for example,
injecting the ExpenseService,
which we don't do at all anymore,
instead of invoking it to return
a list of existing expenses,
we will just simply use the listAll
method inherited from
Panache entity into our Expense entity.
Making sure we mark any data
modification methods as @Transactional
again, we're replacing the service.create method invocation with
simple call to the newExpense.persist method.
So the newExpense is already
created on the line
above,
all we need to do is replace
the service.create
invocation with newExpense persist.
Similar to the delete method,
so what we're going to do is instead
of invoking service.delete method,
we will actually call Expense.Delete
with the uuid parameter,
which should be unique.
It does return number of
records that have been deleted.
Now instead of checking for
the Boolean which the services
delete method return,
we will check whether the number of
deleted records is 0 and complain.
Otherwise,
we will simply return
the remaining objects,
so Expense.listAll no
longer service.list.
And finally, in the PUT method,
which we also mark as Transactional,
we will replace the service.update invocation
with simple Expense.update invocation,
which as we've seen,
we've just added it to the expense
entity, will complain if there's
no expense found, the same as it
would have in the service method,
which we are going to now delete.
The only thing we still
need to take care of
before we remove the ExpenseService
java file, is the initialization of data
upon the start of the application.
We have a post construct method called
initData in the ExpenseService.java,
which adds 2 new expenses.
We are simply going to replace
that with an import.sql file,
which is automatically used, if it's
found upon the Hibernate ORM
than the Panache startup.
So we're simply going to put
the raw SQL code needed to insert
the 2 records into the database.
And now we can finally
remove the expense service.
Using Maven with the quarkus dev goal,
there is going to be a
whole lot of downloading
because this is the first time
I've built this application.
So it has to download all the
dependencies in Maven plug-ins.
Ultimately,
going into the startup mode with Quarkus,
you can ignore this complaint from Maven.
It's about the global settings XML file.
It's probably not going to happen for you.
And here we can see Quarkus is up
listening on local host port 8080.
So let's exercise is a little bit,
leave it running in another terminal.
I've prepared an expense file,
which I'm going to send using curl,
making sure that the Content-Type of
this request is set to application/json
because that's what our application
consumes, I'm using the post method
so I'll be targeting the post,
the create method inside
the expense resource class.
And as the request body,
I'm sending the content
of the expense.json file which is shown just above.
I'm posting that to the expenses endpoint.
And what I get is, as you can see,
the returned id of
the newly created expense along
with the creationDate and the
parameters that I've specified.
So if I just simply send
another GET request,
again noting that I expect
json to be sent to me,
if I simply send the new GET
request to the expenses endpoint of
the application, piping it through
jq to get the prettier print out,
we can see that the new
expense is now, here, right?
That means we can stop the Quarkus runtime,
pressing Control C or shutting it
down by selecting run,
stop, debugging, in VSCodium
and run lab implement-
persist finish script,
which is almost the last thing
we are going to do this chapter.
What remains is the end of chapter
review lab. Join us there.